Release 2.1.3 (#2219)
zalando/patroni: docs/releases.rst

  If the standby cluster is replicating from the Patroni cluster it might be nice to rely on the client-side failover which is available in the ``libpq`` since PostgreSQL v10. That is, the ``primary_conninfo`` on the standby leader and ``pg_rewind`` will set ``target_session_attrs=read-write`` in the connection string, the ``pgpass`` file will be generated with multiple lines (one line per host), and instead of calling the ``CHECKPOINT`` on the primary cluster nodes in the standby cluster will wait for a ``pg_control`` to be updated instead.

**Stability improvements**

- Compatibility with legacy ``psycopg2`` (Alexander)

  For example, the ``psycopg2`` installed from Ubuntu 18.04 packages doesn't have the ``UndefinedFile`` exception yet.

- Restart ``etcd3`` watcher if all Etcd nodes don't respond (Alexander)

  If the watcher is alive the ``get_cluster()`` method continues returning stale information even if all Etcd nodes are failing.

- Don't remove the leader lock in the standby cluster while paused (Alexander)

  Previously the lock was maintained only the node that is running as a primary.

**Bugfixes**

- Fixed bug in the standby-leader bootstrap (Alexander)

>   Paroni was considering bootstrap as failed if Postgres didn't start accepting connections after 60 seconds. The bug was introduced in the 2.1.2

Reviewer: Typo "Paroni"

Reviewer: Also, "in 2.1.2", without "the", or "the 2.1.2 release."

- Fixed bug with failover to a cascading standby (Alexander)

  When figuring out which slots should be created on cascading standby we forgot to take into account that the leader might be absent.

- Fixed small issues in Postgres config validator (Alexander)

  Integer parameters introduced in PostgreSQL v14 were failing to validate because min and max values were quoted in the validator.py

- Use replication credentials when checking leader status (Alexander)

  It could be that the ``remove_data_directory_on_diverged_timelines`` is set, but there is no ``rewind_credentials`` defined and superuser access between nodes is not allowed.

- Fixed port in use error on REST API certificate replacement (Ants Aasma)

  When switching certificates there was a race condition with a concurrent API request. If there is one active during the replacement period then the replacement will error out with a port in use error and Patroni gets stuck in a state without an active API server.

> - Fixed a bug in cluster bootstrap if passwords containing ``%`` characters (Bastien Wirtz)

Reviewer: I think it should be "if passwords contain ``%`` characters"

Release notes
=============

Version 2.1.3
-------------

**New features**

- Added support for encrypted TLS keys for ``patronictl`` (Alexander Kukushkin)

  It could be configured via ``ctl.keyfile_password`` or the ``PATRONI_CTL_KEYFILE_PASSWORD`` environment variable.

- Added more metrics to the /metrics endpoint (Alexandre Pereira)

  Specifically, ``patroni_pending_restart`` and ``patroni_is_paused``.

- Make it possible to specify multiple hosts in the standby cluster configuration (Michael Banck)

>   If the standby cluster is replicating from the Patroni cluster it might be nice to rely on the client-side failover which is available in the ``libpq`` since PostgreSQL v10. That is, the ``primary_conninfo`` on the standby leader and ``pg_rewind`` will set ``target_session_attrs=read-write`` in the connection string, the ``pgpass`` file will be generated with multiple lines (one line per host), and instead of calling the ``CHECKPOINT`` on the primary cluster nodes in the standby cluster will wait for a ``pg_control`` to be updated instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  If the standby cluster is replicating from the Patroni cluster it might be nice to rely on client-side failover which is available in ``libpq`` since PostgreSQL v10. That is, the ``primary_conninfo`` on the standby leader and ``pg_rewind`` settin ``target_session_attrs=read-write`` in the connection string. The ``pgpass`` file will be generated with multiple lines (one line per host), and instead of calling ``CHECKPOINT`` on the primary cluster nodes the standby cluster will wait for ``pg_control`` to be updated.
```
